Yet again I spend like 3h working on this.

I managed to get a basic game running. I even implemented metrics and scoring. Yay, I guess?

I'm still pretty confused as to what I actually want to do with this, but I came to the realization that I'm essentially bumping into a "character design" problem. It kinda feels like I made the game engine for World of Warcraft, but now I have no idea what classes to add to the game. I suppose this is more of a creative rather than technical limitation.

I have a friend who's into board games and stuff like that (actually, I have more than one such friends), so I'll try talking to them about this as well. Maybe they can give me some nice ideas?

In the meantime, I should probably take a small break from this. I've been spending way too much time banging my head against the wall and I'll probably end up burning out at this rate. Maybe if I play some Skyrim for a while, I might get some fresh ideas on what Org/Individuals to implement.

---

I am way too addicted to this...

So after thinking about it a bit more, I decided that I should fix the Org implementation for now. That is to say, implement it one way, and just roll with that. Varying both the Org and Individuals at the same time is way too much cognitive load, so I'm trying to reduce that.

Given such insight, I yet again rewrote the entire thing from scratch, this time with the Org implementation kind of embedded inside the Game. This turned out decent enough I suppose. I also bit the bullet and implemented dedicated state views for different usecases (Org, Individual, Metrics etc). That was a lot of code, but now it looks way cleaner. Also I'm getting DDD flashbacks, which is good I guess?

One thing I realized would be kinda nice to have is an output interface. Right now I can plug in arbitrary input strategies (for how each Individual acts), but I'd like to have a way to transmit information from the game back to the player. This could be used for some simple TUI stuff, but I could also use it for metrics. Actually, now that I think about it, maybe I should replace the metrics module with an output module, which is much more generic and would offer a lot more options.

On the other hand, I'm still not sure how to proceed from here afterwards. So I got the base game running, which is nice, but what next? Implement AI players? Even if I did, how would I make them evolve? What's the goal?

If I can tune the game so that it gets progressively harder, maybe I can do some genetic alogirthms and see if any interesting patterns emerge. I should probably figure out a way to visualize the whole process better as well - some animated way of looking at how time is passing, what everyone is doing, their stats, etc.

One thing that's bugging me is the potential fitness function. How would I rank the individuals? Their score, I guess? Also, how would I implement the recruitment process? I feel like these questions are simultaneously obvious yet somewhat hard to answer properly.

I think I need to differentiate between an Individual's performance at the end of their life, versus their initial seed. I suppose a GA setup's goal would be to find the type of Individuals who _adapt_ best to the Org, and not necessarily the ones who _perform_ best at a certain stage of their/the Org's life. Then again, there might not be much of a difference between these two, assuming each Individual can see enough information about their current state in the Org.

Yeah, I think I'm starting to understand this. I can set up an Individual Strategy based on some simple neural network, then run GA on a bunch of agents until I find weights that perform well. As for natural selection, I can do a kind of double selection - first filter out the agents who managed to survive until the end, then rank them according to how much the Org benefitted from them. Yes... I think this would actually give me a very impotant answer. That is to say, **what kind of people does this organization tend to select most?**

Anyway, it's late and I have work tomorrow. I need to sleep. Good night!